You're going to forget it.
Which one?
You said you live very well.
Say that again.
Start for me.
Let me say I live very well.
Are you in the IRS?
I'm not even looking at your watch.
I just want to hear that quote.
But you were leading to catalogs.
You said something.
I live very well.
But my obsession.
I like that too.
No, it's just hard to read at the same time.
The lights got to be on too.
I have an obsession.
There's no question that I am obsessed with the collecting of documents.
Fortunately, Michael and I don't collect exactly the same things.
I like manuscripts a little more than he likes the printed matter.
But I spend many hours reading and researching, and as well as I live with the places that I go and the plays that I attend and all the cultural events, any other time, free time but that, is spent in study, is spent in collecting, is spent in pursuit of, in reading catalogs.
What's wrong with that?
Well, you know, you just made an interesting statement about the condominium.
And I can remember years ago when I was...
with a friend who I was passionately involved with.
We were together early in the morning, and I had a bit at Sotheby's at 10 o'clock, and it was 7 o'clock in the morning.
There was a piece of Georgian silver that came up.
Or early American silver?
No, I was bidding on the phone.
Was it here or there?
I was in L.A.
Where was the sale?
There.
So it was three hours difference.
Yes, I was being distracted and she saw me bid on something.
It was an early American piece of silver.
Did anyone else get interested in a coffee or a cappuccino or a decaf?
Not sure.
And...
She heard me bidding on it, and I showed her what I was bidding on.
It was this John Coney Bowl or something.
She said, $21,000 that thing went for?
She said, $21,000.
I put wheels on it and drive it.
Basically, it's the same kind of thing that you say with the...
Did you get it?
No, I didn't.
Were you the underbidder?
I was the underbidder.
But I have no concept of the value of money.
You must have because you were the underbidder.
As a matter of fact, one of the things I'm most adamant about is that I charge the wealthy as much as I charge the poor.
I do not believe that a wealthy person, but I don't believe that a wealthy patient should pay any more for my services because they are wealthy.
It is not up to me to determine
the distribution... I don't think you should have to apologize for that.
My practice does not in any way affect my collecting except for being an impediment to my reading catalogs that come in early in the morning that are three hours late by the nature of the time zone.
because it supplies no money for me at all in terms of collective.
Fortunately, I have other things to do.
My first appointment is 11 o'clock.
How many days a week?
Two to three days a week.
My first appointment is about that hour.
My first appointment is 11 a.m.
and by that time I've been on the phone to New York since six.
I've been up since six.
And then I go back to bed.
I really do because I'm up.
Oh yeah.
I've been up for, you know, three hours by the time.
The greatest quote I ever heard of books, on books, I ever saw or read.
It's a quote that's an A-B.
You'll never shut him up there.
No, it's this.
It's this.
It was in the verso of a page in the lower left-hand corner when A.B.
was a little octavo-sized.
And it said, my wife said, it's me or the books.
I chose the book.
It's open for this and such and such and such and such.
Really, it's a little warning shed and I've been trying to get that goddamn thing for 10 years.
What?
I'm going to find it.
It's in you.
Go read A.B.
I can tell you.
My wife said it's near the book, so I chose the book.
I like that quote that was under that old catalog about the 18th century man and disposing of his books.
He said, you're going for it.
That's the one.
And the stupid gaze of the... He would much rather send... I would much rather see it to auction so that those... That's in the opening chapter of my book.
So those who follow me... Those who follow me may see the same... It was the embassy galleries who used that quote for 20 years.
Yeah, and I've seen it on the back of their... Someone, I don't know, has written me away... I didn't sell... I didn't sell my books at auction.
You know what I have done in the book?
That was whole.
Oh.
I said it was whole.
You said gremlin.
I said you didn't hear me all first.
Read your tape.
I could see a chase right now.
as being very important in that I don't have time to thoroughly enjoy all the things that I buy.
They come in faster than I can research them.
Well, I peruse them, I look at them, I fondle them, I play with them, but you know what?
I do some research on them, but inevitably it's on to the next thing.
But somewhere in the back of the mind... No, not at all.
No, no, not at all.
In the end, it's somewhere in the back of my mind, I see myself...
stopping that and going back and researching each and every one of those pieces.
Fortunately, the way and the nature of collecting is that if you acquire all these pieces, at some point they start to merge.
That is, especially manuscript documents.
You get a document from here, a document from there, and they all come together.
Like I have five or six documents relating to Samuel Adams and John Hancock, and John Hancock at the Battle of Lexington and getting married.
And they've all come from different sources.
But it's interesting that history is wrong in terms of his moving his then-girlfriend from Boston to Lexington just before the battle.
They were going to get married, and they did when the war broke out.
But I have letters of her brother and all her uncles and all of them.
But they've all merged together, and the history becomes clearer.
When you have them... Oh, well, that's basic to me.
And if you don't have that, and you don't have that reverence for the past... Unfortunately, I think her interest revolves through me.
That's right.
In other words, it's not the true thing.
If she's interested because I'm interested, that doesn't explain the passion, the obsession.
It doesn't explain the exhilaration.
My favorite quote was Howard Carter.
I'm not quite sure.
She collects money.
She's very penurious.
Sorry.
She spends no money at all.
Very little.
She hates to spend money.
She loves to collect money.
No, she doesn't spend my money either.
Are you very lucky?
I am indeed lucky.
She does not spend my money either.
Now do you know what you have?
No.
Do you ever run across things that astonish you that you own them?
Yes.
I have more than once ordered twice the same thing.
I have called a book dealer and I said, I'd like to order this.
And he says, I'm sorry, they're sold.
And I go away with my head hanging and I walk into my office and the UPS shows up and I open the box and there they are.
They're sold all right.
I bought them a month ago.
I've ordered duplicate books.
The same reference source, inevitably.
The kick is getting him?
No, the kick is the history.
The kick is beating Ximena.
The kick is the history.
The previous discussion was held in New York City on Friday
April 19th, during dinner with Michael Zinman and Dr. Gary Millan of Beverly Hills, California.
This was after we had attended the New York Book Fair.
We got together at a restaurant.